---
published: true
layout: post
title: Simplify
date: 2016-07-08T13:57:00.000Z
categories: ideation organization
tags: idea concept philosophy
---

I had a fair share of over-complicating matters and issues in my life. 

---------------
>Overthinking and over-analyzing separates the body from the mind
>*Tool*
---------------

*Analysis Paralysis* becomes a common phrase because it is common and it has stayed true in many aspects of my life. My tendency to over-complicate matters has affected my decisions at work, my productivity, and it even hinders my effort in completing my simple to-do list. 

## Simplify
----------------
> Make it simple and keep it simple. If it's complicated, it means I'm not doing it right, yet.
> *Rizky* 
----------------

Of course simplicity is a relative measure. It is simple when it is clear to a targeted audience. A single functioning, UNIX style program is a simple product because it is clear what it is designed to do: one thing and one thing only. A diff doesn’t refresh my screen. A less doesn't create a file. When simple programs come together, they create a harmonious system. The people who work with them have joy working with them from the start as they know what they are up to from the simple program description. 

When a system must be described when its creator forgot to describe it, what should I do? I break it down. I break down the system into single function program blocks. When each program block is simple enough, when it has clear enough description to its intended audience, I have a simple system to maintain. Once they are all clear, the next step of its evolution is to survive; to become better while serving its simple purpose in its system. I can no longer have to deal with a humongous ordeal of a system. I now have a platform where I can resource groups of people to specialize in them and to make them better. I can convince myself, my peers, my system consumers and prospects that the system functions and it functions well.

When adaptation becomes a concern and a new function must be added, a new program will emerge to do just that. 

## Reality Check
What happens when a system has the too many functions? It happens when the people who work in the system do not have the facility to care that the dynamics of of system program blocks have gone out of control and out of logic. I must take a bold step to take out all rogue program blocks and put them into systems that they deserve. What then? Now we end up having many systems and they, on certain abstracted perspective, should have been perceived as one. It is not impossible to make systems integrate, just as program blocks integrate. Where to begin, then? It begins by making it simple and keeping it simple. If it becomes complicated, then I'm doing it wrong so I must try again. 

There's a hidden gem in making simple program blocks to build a system for an enterprise: each block can be sold separately. 
